.TH naming 5 "22.08.2024" "0.1" "meta archives"

.SH NAME

naming	\-	naming conventions for the meta archives

.SH INCANTATIONS

incantations(functions) are named based on the following format:
.TP
.B return	(st_)type_verb(detail)();

.TP
.B  st_
optional prefix to determine the scope of the function as static.
.TP
.B data
data type to be manipulated by the function.
.TP
.B verb
the action performed by the function to the data.
.TP
.B detail
optional extra specifications to the action performed.

.SH TYPE
The most basic types are primitives, representing a bit sequence that should be abstracted
into a number. number are the foundation, and they can be used to permorf all incantations.

.B
Primitives: bit sequences abstracted into numbers.
.TS
tab(|);
|r|c|c|l|.
_
PRIMITIVE|ABSTRACTION|NAMES|COLLECTION|
_
int|iterator|i, j, k|iters, itr
int|offset|veil|veils, vls
int|index|rune|rune_book, rbk
int|timestamp|kin|clock, clk
int|identifier|zodiac|constellation, cll
int|file descriptor|scroll|trove, trv
int|seed|seed|garden, grn
int, float|scalar|s, z, c|scalars, scl
int, float|coordinates|x, y, z|vector, vec
char|ascii|sigil, sgl|string, str
_
.TE
.TP

These primitives can be used as logical variables to perform incantations of different

.B
conjure: magical creatures that can be created and manipulated.
.TS
tab(|);
|l | l | l|.
_
CREATURE          |PROTOTYPE          |OVERVIEW          
_
serpent|srp(_type) |linearly linked list
ouroboros|oro(_type) |circularly linked list
coatl|ctl(_type) |doubly linked list
coatl oroboros|cro(_type) |doubly circularly linked list
_
Hydra|hyd(_type)|branching structure
_
Chimera|khi(Type(Type(...)))|heterogeneous group
Golen|gln(_type)|homogeneous group
_
Sphinx|sph(_type)|queue
Minotaur|mtr(_type)|stack
_
Cipactli|tli(_type)|matrix

.TE
Conjurations can be named as the collection name of the primitive they hold
(eg: veils, rune_book, constellation). In case the collection is heterogeneous,
creatures can be named as:

serpent, ouroboros:	echdina, typhon or jormungandr.

coatl:				Quetzalcoatl

these variable names cover most cases, and, if needed, the names should hold suffixes
specifying and differentianing the varible,
(eg: rune_of_separation, scroll_of_map, seed_of_harmony)

.SH VERB

a verb is the action performed by the incantation:
.TP
.B scry		| scries, scried, scrying		| to learn existance

scry(for); str_scry(for)String	\- learn if str has String
.TP
.B divine	| divines, divined, divining		| to learn position

divine(for); str_divine(for)String	\- find position of String in str
.TP
.B inscribe	| inscribes, inscribed, inscribing	| to carve as to make permanent

inscribe(to); str_inscribe(to)Scroll	\- carve str into Scroll
.TP
.B imprint	| imprints, imprinted, imprinting	| to stamp one on to another

imprint(from); str_imprint(from)String(at)Rune	\- imprint String into str at rune
.TP
.B reave	| reaves, reaved, reaving			| to plunder primitives

reave(for); str_reave(for)String	\- plunders str's first String

.TP
.B sunder	| sunders, sundered, sundering		| to split apart

sunder(at);	str_sunder(at)Sigil \- splits str at first Sigil

runver(at);	str_runver(at)Sigil	\- splits str at last Sigil

insunder(at);	str_insunder(at)Sigil	\-	splits str at every Sigil
.TP
.B weave	| weaves, woven, weaving	| to form by interlacing.

weave(to);	str_weave(to)String	\- weaves str and String togheter
.TP
.B scan		| scans, scanned, scanning	| to read from

scanN;	scl_scanN

scanLine;	scl_scanLine

scanRow;	mtx_scanRow

